Astronaut Chris Hadfield's lessons from space
What can we learn from an astronaut of 21 years, who had David Bowie tweet approval of his cover from aboard the International Space Station (ISS) of Space Oddity? Sarah Montague from the Today programme on BBC Radio 4 sat down with Canada's Commander Chris Hadfield to find out.
Astronauts don't get frightened in space
According to Cmdr Hadfield, they're so well prepared that being frightened doesn't really come into it, even if they happen to be blinded during their first foray into outer space - which is exactly what happened to him.
"It's only in the movies that astronauts scream... I was blinded during my first space walk. No one would hear me out there if I was screaming."
British astronaut Tim Peake found time for a casual selfie while on a space walk.
But he didn't seem too worried.
"There's an enormous difference between danger and fear. They are not the same thing. If you're unprepared, then they are the same.
"Fortunately they prepare us enough so we can do the job well."
There is no sound in space
What does space sound like? A little bit like the in-out, in-out of breathing.
This baby wouldn't need headphones in space.
"That is the reality. You are out there in eternal silence. All you can really hear is the inhalation and exhalation of your own breath which is a reminder of the fact you are a tiny little bubble of life in an immense emptiness," Cmdr Hadfield says.
Space: it's big out there.
But he doesn't mind the silence: "It's a nice companion to have.
"You are aware of the absolute enormity of where you are and absolute tininess of your own existence."
You don't have to be good at maths to be an astronaut.
No need to be this guy (Albert Einstein... of course) to make the astronaut grade.
Good news for wannabe space adventurers, you don't need to be an expert mathematician to make it up to the stars. Cmdr Hadfield says astronauts come from a variety of backgrounds like biology, engineering and veterinary.
He says you really only need three things to succeed:
A healthy body
To know things, so study and understand as much as you can
Learn how to do things, make decisions and stick with them
Cmdr Hadfield says, "It doesn't matter who you are as long as you have those three things." He told aspiring astronauts to think of maths as a tool you use to solve a problem. So don't be afraid to take out the hammer and use it.
There is one thing Cmdr Hadfield can't do
Can we expect an astronautical appearance on Strictly?
Cmdr Hadfield is lacking one life skill: dancing.
He said he "tries to stick to things he's good at" and dancing isn't one of them.
I think we'll let him off with that one: the man does normally hang out in space, after all.
Cmdr Hadfield's family were 'relieved' when he said he was becoming an astronaut
Chris Hadfield was a Royal Canadian Air Force fighter pilot in the Cold War and then after that a test pilot - pretty dangerous jobs. He confessed to Sarah that when he was a test pilot, "they expected people to die".
He explained that for his family, "becoming an astronaut was a step towards safety. We launch much less often... it was actually a relief."
And did you know he's afraid of the dark?
A terrified Chris Hadfield in the dark.